added draft of attack vectos to your sso (#594)
ory/web: src/markdown/blog/attack_vectors.mdx

---

> path: '/how-to-defend-your-sso-from-all-attack-types/'

Reviewer: The path is different from the title. Is this intentional?

Reviewer 2: The path can be different, that is actually good for SEO (since both get indexed, used in search results AFAIK)

title: |

>   Attack vectors for authentication service

Reviewer: Just an idea, feel free to reject.

```suggestion
  Common attack vectors for authentication service
```

teaser: |

>   This article shows the most popular attack vectors to authentication service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This article gives an overview of the most common attack vectors against authentication services
```

seo:
  title: |
    This article shows the most popular attack vectors to authentication service
  description: |

>     In this guide you will learn how to personalize community onboarding using a custom built Slack bot and host it on AWS Lambda for free.

Reviewer: Copy-paste-mistake? This description seems from another blog post.

Author: Yep. That's a copy-paste-mistake

  keywords: |

>     attack vectors, auth, security, phishing attack

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    attack vectors, authentication, security, phishing attack, hacking
```

> publishedAt: '2022-02-23'

Reviewer: Will this date get updated later? If not, maybe update now?

author: gen1us2k

overline: |
  Authentication Attack Vectors

published: true
tags:
  - Open Source

>   - Guide

Reviewer: Would a "security" tag make sense? I assume we have a bunch of security-related blog posts.

---

> Software engineers write code. This code goes to production and is used by end-users. Sometimes even the perfect and clean code has bugs, and some of them can be security issues. Hence, every software engineer who writes code for end-users needs to care about their code's security.

Reviewer: A few suggestions to make it more idiomatic English and "squeeze out" filler words that don't add much but take up space. With blog posts, I believe less is more. At least I am exponentially more likely to read a blog post if it is short  :)

```suggestion
Every non-trivial codebase contains bugs. Some bugs cause security issues. Hence, every software engineer needs to care about their code's security.
```

> One needs to think differently to write robust and secure programs. This article shows the most common attack vectors to authentication services and how to avoid data security breaches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wrining robust and secure code requires a security-oriented mindset. This article presents the most common attack vectors against authentication services and how to mitigate them.
```

## What is an attack vector and attack surface

> An attack vector is a path that a hacker takes to exploit cybersecurity vulnerabilities. In contrast, an attack surface is all of the public and privately exposed nexus points of your company's data and human or software interaction. Let's start with password guessing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The attack surface of a computer system is made of all its parts that are visible to the public and could be used to compromise the system, including web interfaces, APIs, and humans. An attack vector is a specific path that a hacker uses to hack into a computer system. Let's start with password guessing
```

## Password guessing

Bruteforce attack is a simple and powerful way to gain access for an unauthorized user. Enumeration is a key for this type of attack, and it's simply an automated way to check different credentials and find credentials that give you access to the system.

> There are different types of brute force attacks performed by a hacker. For instance, a simple bruteforce attack does not use any software, and a hacker enters credentials manually. The next level of this type of attack is dictionary attacks when a hacker can use scripts and dictionaries with commonly used passwords.

Reviewer: Are there really "manual bruteforce attacks", and even if there are, do we want to mention them here?

- Wi-fi sniffing
- Man-in-the-middle interception
- Keylogger and screen spying software
- Cookie leak caused by XSS or Virus/Trojan software
- SSL vulnerabilities

A solution to prevent these attacks can be SSL encryption usage. It can help you to avoid Wifi sniffing and MitM attacks. Yet it opens possibilities to exploit SSL vulnerabilities, and it would be an excellent idea to have security audits and periodic configuration checks by the operations/development team. Nevertheless, SSL encryption is not enough to prevent keylogger/screen spying attacks because they run on the user's device, and we should configure 2FA to avoid security risks.

Two-factor authentication adds an additional step to the authentication process. Usually, a user enters a username/password to authenticate, and then they'll be required to provide another piece of information. The best way is to use a Time-based one-time-password or HMAC-based one-time-password. One can use SMS authentication for 2FA for usability, but it can be [less secure for your system](https://securityboulevard.com/2021/12/why-using-sms-authentication-for-2fa-is-not-secure/)

> Another type of attack is cookie leak. Well, it means that an attacker gained access to your server-side cookie storage, and now she can use any cookie to exploit. A solution to prevent this attack can be a short cookie lifetime and the usage of the least privileges. That's why Ory Kratos has a default value for `session.cookie.lifespan` 1h.

Reviewer: I think it would be okay to make separate attack vectors like this one (cookie leak) its own section in the document.

Let's meet George. George is into Google technologies, and we need to steal his password for google services. George knows Andrew, and they work together. We know that George uses 2FA to secure his Google account. How can Andrew steal George's account?

Andrew configures a web server with a copy of the accounts.google.com webpage with the following logic

- Save credentials to a text file
- Shows "Loading..."
- and redirects to https://developers.google.com/

Andrew performs a DNS poison attack and spoofs two domains that point to the web server with the exact copy of the accounts.google.com webpage.
Andrew configures a web server with two hosts: acc.google.com and dev.google.com. dev.google.com redirects to acc.google.com. After some testing with redirection, Andrew can perform an attack.

> He sends George a simple message like, "Hey, look what Google introduced in the new version of Google assistant http://dev.account.com/assistant". George opens the link, gets redirected to acc.google.com, enters credentials, and sees a webpage. Alas, his account credentials was compromised a couple of minutes ago when he entered his credentials on a phishing page. Andrew needs to take his phone for a couple of minutes to gain full access to George's Google account.

Reviewer: In the paragraph above, you set up `acc.google.com` and `dev.google.com`. Here you mention `dev.account.com`. I don't see the connection.

Reviewer: What does Andrew do with his phone here?
